# mod-5-project-frontend
The Next Step was my final project for The Flatiron School. It was made using React JS (with redux) for the frontend and Ruby on Rails as the backend API. I made my own datasets, and seeded all facility and user information. I also used to the Google Maps API.

The Next Step is an online resource for addiction that features a list of rehab facilities near your location (as of now it is limited to New York) with information about each facility, including link to website, directions, phone number, as well as a dropdown showing what insurance plans that facility accepts. Facility search can be filtered based on city, insurance, or both simultaneously. Each of the facilities are also rendered as pins on a google map, using google maps react. Hovering over the information card will make that facility on the card the center of the map. You can recenter the map should you wander. If you hover a pin, it shows the facility name, and if you click the pin it opens up the google maps directions in a new tab. All facilities are filtered upon rendering based on proximity to your current location (the closest facilities will be higher on the list).

You can also see user reviews for each facility and even write one if you are signed up. The reviews section includes all reviews written by users, along with a star rating system that corresponds to a numerical rating from 1 to 5. The star rating system is pure css with no third party animation. 

You can sign up as either a sponsor (someone looking to be a mentor to someone else trying to pursue sobriety, or a sponsee, someone looking for a mentor to help pursue sobriety. 

If you sign up as a sponsor, you can see a list of available sponsees in the area, along with a short bio, age, gender and an mail icon so you can send them an email. Every user has a username (no real names or address is public as to ensure anonymity is maintained). You can filter your search based on user age and gender. All users are filtered upon rendering based on proximity to your current location (the closest users will be higher on the list).

While addiction has not affected me personally, I have loved one who deal with addiction. It is hard enough for people to admit to themselves that they have a problem, let alone approach someone in person and ask for help. This resource provides people the opportunity to actively search for available and open people. Sponsees benefit from the mentoring of a sponsor who can help keep them working toward sobriety. Sponsors benefit from the relationship by reinforcing their own sobriety by helping someone who is experiencing something they experienced. 
